h1. Sentinel

Transparent (unobtrusive) Observers for your Rubies.

Does Sentinel helps your daily work with Ruby? So, "please recommend me in Work With Rails":http://workingwithrails.com/recommendation/new/person/9370-lucas-h-ngaro and thanks for your kindness! :)

h2. Why?

Developed for an specific need we had at "Busk":http://www.busk.com, Sentinel is a very small library that provides a way to add what we call "Transparent Observers" to your Ruby code. This means that you do not need to modify the observed methods (following the most common implementation of Observers), just use a mixin and declare your observers.

h2. How?

First, install the gem:

<pre>
$ [sudo] gem install sentinel
</pre>

Then, add it as a dependency in your code using your favorite way (a simple require or mechanisms like the Bundler gem).

To use it, first you'll need an observer class with the Sentinel mixin. This class contains the methods to be notified and the configuration specifying what subject methods will be observed. See an example below:

<pre>
class MyObserver
  include Sentinel

  observe MyClass, :instance_method
  observe MyClass, :class_method, :method_to_notify => :notify_class_method, :class_method => true #to observe a class method

  def self.notify(options, *args)
    puts "Do your thing!"
  end

  def self.notify_class_method(options, *args)
    puts "Called class_method!"
  end
end
</pre>

As you can see, Sentinel can observe both class and instance methods. The _notify_ method is the default one if you don't specify the :method_to_notify option. Now, our actual class:

<pre>
class MyClass
  def instance_method
    puts "Hi from the instance method!"
  end

  def self.class_method
    puts "Hi from the class method!"
  end
end
</pre>

And... that's it! Every time the subject (in this case, MyClass) method is called, the specified observer method will be called too. By default, the observer method is called *before* the subject method, but you can call it *after* the execution (will see it in the next example).

The parameters passed to the subject method are passed to the observer method via the *args array. The options hash contains the key :subject, which contains the actual subject object and the key :result, which contains the return of the observed method in case you intercepted the call after its execution.

Below is a more "advanced" use of the observers:

<pre>
class MyObserver
  include Sentinel

  observe MyClass, :instance_method, :intercept => :after

  def self.notify(options, *args)
    puts "Called from #{options[:subject]} with arguments #{args.inspect} and returned #{options[:result]}"
  end
end
</pre>

h2. Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

h3. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Lucas Húngaro. See LICENSE for details.
